---
---
April 10, 1873, “The Riot in Grant Parish,” New Orleans Republican
A. Hatton


The Riot in Grant Parish
Statements of Steamboatmen 
        The steamboats John T. Moore and La Bella bring some intelligence of the riot at Colfax, in Great parish. The former boat passed that place Monday, and the officers state that they saw a large body of colored men, armed with shotguns and other weapons, on the bank and they did not land. At Montgomery, twenty-five miles above, they had taken on board Judge W. R. Rutland, who stated he had been forced to flee from his home. He states that Representative Ward had taken armed possession of the courthouse at Colfax. Judge Rutland, fearing he would be assasinated if he remained there, went to Montgomery and remained there until taken on board by the John T. Moore. While away from home he learned that his house had been sacked. As the boat passed Colfax it was hailed by Mr. Calhoun, but did not take him on board, being unable to make the landing on account of the violent wind. On arriving at Alexandria they learned the LaBelle, which had passed them, had taken Mr. Calhoun on board, but that he had been taken off again under arrest by the sheriff at Pineville. At Alexandria were a body of about 200 armed men who were going to Colfax to attack the rioteers. These men took a six pound cannon from the boat, and proposed to take it with them. They also took from the Durfee eleven casks of bacon and twenty barrels of flour. It was reported at Alexandria that the rioters were shooting all who refused to join them. [a]
        The La Bella, coming after the John T. Moore, made a landing a little below Colfax, and took Mr. Calhoun on board at Curry Point, very near his own plantation. Mr. Calhoun said he had been in the woods since Tuesday of last week, that his house had been seized by rioters and he was obliged to get away. At Colfax the boat was hailed by a woman. Mr. Calhoun states that she was a teacher, from New Orleans, in a private family. On reaching Pineville the Belle was boarded by armed men from Alexandria, who took Mr. Calhoun off with them. They told him no harm would come to him if he was innocent, as he said he was, of creating the riot. He was searched, and a letter found on him from Representative Ward to Governor Kellogg, reciting the existing disturbance and asking for assistance. The Belle was obliged to come down and leave Mr. Calhoun in their hands, and it is feared he will suffer violence. The cause of the riot seems to be the duplicate commission of the parish officers. Governor Kellogg had, at the instigation of Rutland, and others, commissioned Nash sheriff, and others who ran on the Fusion ticket. Some of those on this ticker were of the party who are charged with having burned the house of Judge Phillips and murdered Recorder White September 25, 1871. Mr. Ward represented these facts to Governor Kellogg, who thereafter issued other commissions of the elected republicans. Mr. Ward took the commissions, went to Grant and demanded the offices. He was refused possession of the courthouse and then took it. Richardson and Rutland, who, it is alleged, had been in communication with the puny woods Democrats, sent to them for assistance to remake the offices. Mar. Ward then ordered Rutland and RIcharsonto leave town. Dr. Cockrell and Mr. Paul, the Fusion candidate for sheriff, are leading the men from Alexandria, who are going to Grant to fight. It is believed that they will be reinforces from the parishes of Catahoula, 
Natchitoches, Sabine, Winn, and Rapides. Hadnott, the member of the Odd Fellows’ Hall Legislature, is said to be among the active members of the bands from piney woods. 


Statement of Judge Rutland
Judge W. R. Rutland, who arrived here yesterday morning on the steamboat John T. Moore furnishes the Picayune with the following version. In reference to the statement that he wrote a letter to the New Orleans REPUBLICAN, which we refused to publish, we can only say we never received any communication from him:
        The Lynch returning board ignored the election of out parish officers, and Mr. Kellogg appointed a set of men to fill the vacancies, but who did not qualify according to law, and allowed the time to elapse in which they are required by law to do it in. Mr. Kellogg, at my instance, commissioned all officers who were elected, including both Republicans and Fusionists, white and colored, except a parish judge who had already qualified and was a Republican. 
        Wars, a member of the Dryades street Legislature, learning that Mr. Kellogg was going to issue these commissions, hastened to Colfax and took violent and forcible possession of the courthouse and offices with a mob. There was a proposition to hold a mass meeting of the people for the purpose of expressing their condemnation in a quiet wat at the course pursued by these men, but when the day arrived for the meeting to thave been called together there were such violent demonstrations made by Ward, Register and Flowers, and the armed band that was backing them, that the few white people who had the matter in hand did not pretend to do anything, but quietly returned to their homes without going near the courthouse, or assembling anywhere. After this I was advised by my friends to seek safety, as my life was in danger. I took their advice and started to cross the river to Mr. J.C. Morantini’s place, but when I got to the river I was interviewed by another friend, who told me that it would not be safe for me to return to this side of the river that night. After crossing the river I was met again by persons who told me there was a determination to assassinate me if I returned to the Colfax side of the river.
        At twelve o’clock at night I found out that the mob had sacked my house and that they were going to attempt to cross the river and arrest me. I made my escape by Mr. Morantini furnishing me with a horse and guide, and I went to Montgomery, where I found my family, which had preceded me by boat. Since that time I have been quit and have done nothing, remaining at Montgomery. I did not go out of town at all until I got on board the steamboat John T. Moore to come to his place. In passing colfax, last monday morning, I was discovered on board of the boat by the mob of negroes, and my ears were greeted with prolonged and horrific yells from the shore, and many, mounting  theri horses, got their guns and pursued after the boar from some distance, some even following a distance over seven miles. 
        I will state also that on the way down, the boat was hailed to take a Mr. Calhoun on , but she could not make the landing owing to a very violent wind that was blowing at the time. The steamboat La Belle came along directly after, and made the landing, and took Calhoun on, and passed us before we got to Alexandria. When we got to Alexandra I learned that Calhoun had been arrested and had been taken off of the boat. The gentlemen who took him from the board stated that they were going to take him to Colfax and make him quit to mischief and restore the peace that he was the promoter and head cause of, as he was principally responsible for what had been. But I do not believe (although, of course, I did not see the persons who had him in custody) that any violence against him was meditaded; but it is hard to say what an angry set of men will do under such circumstances. I have good evidence to believe that the destruction to my property resulted from the failure to assassinate me, which has been premeditated.         
        The white people in Grant parish and in adjoining parishes were assembling to resist the encroachments of these men. Ward and his desperadoes have been and doubtless are now prowling about the country, taking houses, guns and whatever else they could lay their hands upon. Ward and his men about a week ago, killed two peaceable colored men, and a perfect reign of terror is now instituted in Colfax. This is the first statement for any newspaper that I have made, except for a letter I wrote to the New Orleans REPUBLICAN, which they refused to publish. 
I will state that all my personal property has been taken away and destroyed; that the coffin spoken of contained the body of a littler girl, who died in Lake Charles in 1867, which I had taken up and was going to reinter in Red River, and that I legend in Alexadnria, as I came through on Monday, that a negro mob had taken it out and burned. A great many colored men were in Alexandria, who had run away from Colfax to keep out of the trouble.  
[a]tghf
