---
﻿Title: Hanged
Transcriber: David Win
Date: 1878-11-12
Newspaper: Memphis Daily Appeal
Location: Memphis, Tennessee
Author: na
Cited source: na


Page URL: https://www.newspapers.com/image/167999277/?fcfToken=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJmcmVlLXZpZXctaWQiOjE2Nzk5OTI3NywiaWF0IjoxNzE3MTc3MTczLCJleHAiOjE3MTcyNjM1NzN9.B7V1CTEAsH6_E3z48nq9uWA_gmVQXYbyhUNeD4snjpM


---
HANGED
By a Mob-Such was the Fate of a Col- ored Man and his Wife who Sys- tematically Starved an In- fant Child to Death.
A few days ago we published a paragraph stating that two negroes, a man and a woman, had been hanged near Hernando, Mississippi, by a mob. Diligent inquiry on our part failed, until last night, to find any one who had saw the hanging. A gentleman who had been refugeeing at Hernando gives us the following account of the affair: "The negro man and his wife had in their custody a little white child, about five years old, which had been placed in their hands, it is believed, by its mother, in order that they might get rid of the child, and the inhuman mother thus become sole heir to some prop- erty. The colored couple built a pen in their yard and placed the child in it to starve. Instead of dying in a few days, as they in- tended it should, the little one escaped from its prison, and, too weak to walk, crawled about the yard and actually devoured the excrescence left about the place by the brutal negroes. As the poor child seemed disin- clined to die a natural death, the fiends then killed it The horrible affair became known, the remains of the child were dug up, and its murderers were arrested and placed in jail. When the yellow-fever ap- peared in Hernando the prisoners in the jail were taken to the country and put to work in cotton-fields, being carried from one farm to another as the crop of each was picked over. Some of the people having determined that the murderers of the child should not escape, a number of men, variously estimated at from twenty-five to forty, went at night to a farm where the prisoners had been at work. They were lodged in the loft of a gin, and the guards, having heard of the approach of the lynchers, cut down the steps, and stood at the doors and threatened to shoot any of the party who attempted to gain access to the loft. No facilities being offered for a quiet and peaceful hanging at this establish- ment, the avengers, of the murdered child took their departure, to await a more favor- able occasion. A few nights afterward the prisoners were lodged in cabins on a farm near where the former demand was made for the victims. Into these cabins the mob rushed, and secured the two persons whom they had determined should die for commit- ting one of the most horrible crimes on rec- ord. They were taken to the roadside and sung to the limbs of trees, and left dangling there as a warn- ing to evil-doers. Our informant states that the man was a large mulatto, weighing over two hundred pounds. He had not been drawn high enough, and his feet touched the ground. The inventive genius of one of the lynchers came to the rescue in this embarrassing dilemma, and he tore off a portion of the victim's shirt and tied his feet together, drew them up and attached the end of the string to the one which secured the hands behind the body. This bunging arrangement evidently caused the man to linger a long time, in awful misery, after he was suspended. The woman's feet were a considerable distance from the ground and her neck was broken.
It is rather remarkable that this affair has not become more generally known, and that the verdicts of the coroner's juries in the case of the child, as well as the hangmen's vic- tims, have not been published. This may have been on account of the excitement which was caused by the prevalence of the fever.How the particulars of the treatment of the child were made known, is another strange feature of the case.