---
Instructions


Transcribe yourself verbatim - exactly as it appears (clean) - or copy and paste existing (“dirty” OCR from Chronicling America) transcription of a key article. If you use the “dirty” OCR you can clean it up by correcting the transcription by fixing any discrepancies between it and the article of interest (so that is more accurate as a verbatim transcript of that article)


Above the transcription identify the case of interest and details about the news article (title, newspaper, date, link), and your name (transcriber).


Example


Reference details about the article (title, author, newspaper, etc.). 
G. Ward [name of transcriber]


Atrocity in Cairo [title as it appears]
Verbatim transcription


---
The Messenger & Intellenger 
Lynched by Mob after long race 


Willis Jackson Charged With Assaulting Young Girl Taken From Officers After Exciting Exciting Chase Through Several Counties, Prey of Infurated Mob, Bent on Vengeance, Returned to Scene Crime, Swung to Telephone Pole and Riddled with Bullets.
 Anderson, S. C. dispatch, Oct. 10th. 
Intense excitement has prevailed in Anderson county today fo'lowing successful criminal assault upon the 11-year-old daughter of a promine citizen of Honea Path by a negr Willis Jackson, aged 17 years, th morning at 7:30 o'clock. Accordin to the little girl she was attacked b the negro while she was going to he pasture with her cow. The attac s. was made within three hundre rs yards of the incorporate limits nd Honea Path and after dragging h or little victim about seventy-five yar e into a patch of woods he accomplish S bis dastardly purpose behind a dea log. st y. of n, The little girl emerged from t woods, attracted a passerby and ga of the alarm. A mob of several hu in dreb people immediately gathered .ܐ The Honea Path and every conceivab hiding place was searched. Thr negro men were brought before t girl and it was the last, Willis Jac f son, that she positively identified the right man. The identificatio took place while the mobs we searching the woods, the negro ha ing been located in a butcher shop b Constable Haynes. Before the mo ed returned from their fruitless sear re the nego had been placed in an aut to mobile, driven by Melvin Ashl ce and was on his way to the coun ce, jail here. е of m- se on nt st- es us About 9:30 o'clock Jackson w en lodged in jail. A telephone messa as from Honea Path stated that the a gry mob was increasing rapidly an that it was likely the crowd wou come to Anderson to storm the jai is Sheriff King then barricaded the ja ty calling in his deputy sheriffs and se e-eral policemen who were armed wi in Winchester rifles. Sheriff King the hs hit on the plan of spiriting the neg ad away and in Dr. W. F. Ashmore Or automobile, in charge of Depu Te Sheriff Martin and Policeman Ho land, the negro was dispatched Greenville. The car carrying the n gro left Anderson at 12:45 o'clock er Twenty minutes after the negro ha e been spirited away more than a hu 1. dred heavily-armed men arrive at in the city. Some came on the tro eley car, some in automobiles and th -y others on the train. They gathere a-together and proceeded toward th county jail. They were then tol that the prisoner had been placed i an automobile and that he was the on his way to Greenville. he a- e he 3. The mob was evidently greatly dis appointed on being outwitted, bu under the leadership of "Citizen' Josh Ashly, who had arrived in a large automobile, they mobiliz again, boarded automobiles, and started in pursuit. The officers bad departed twenty minutes in advance There were a dozen or more automo biles occupied by the infuriated mob The distance from Anderson to Green ville is 37 miles and the 10.ds muddy on account of a hard rain las night. At Piedmont, 22 miles from Anderson, the mob had gained 8 minutes on the officers, being only 12 minutes behind. The officers pass ed Piedmont at 1:04 o'clock and ar rived at Greenville at 1:50 o'clock. The first car of the mob arrived in that city just five minutes later, but at that time the prisoner was on his way to Spartanburg. Sheriff King had telephoned to Sheriff Poole at Greenville and the latter had in read- iness a large automobile. A trans- fer from the old machine was made in a twinkling of an eye and the big car then started for Spartanburg, 40 miles distant Greenville, S. C., Oct. 10.-In the depths of a forest six miles north of Greenville an armed mob of twenty- five men, headed by "Citizen" Josh Ashley, of Honea Path, a member of Anderson county's legislative dele- gation, overpowered Deputy Sheriff Martin of Anderson county and Sher- iff J. Perry Poole of Greenville coun ty this afternoon and took from their custody one Willis Jackson, a 17-year- old negro, charged with criminally assaulting the 11-year-old daughter of a prominent citizen of Honea Path at 7:30 o'clock this morning. The trembling negro was placed in the car in which Ashley and four other men rode, followed by a train of sev- eral automobiles from Anderson and Greenville counties, loaded with de- termined men and bristling with shot guns and rifles, the ring-leaders turned in their fury and started to- ward Honea Path. Promises were made the sheriff that the negro would be carried back to the scene of his crime and the "Older heads" con- sulted as to what should be done. with him. There is a general feel ing, however, that the negro will never see Honea Path alive. The capture of the alleged rapist conclud- ed one of the most sensationaf man- chases this section of the country has ever known, Greenville dispatch, 10th. A long distance telephone message from Honea Path says that at 11:24 o'clock tonight Willis Jackson was swung to a telephone pole by one of his heels and his body riddled with bullets. The negro was taken to the identical spot where the crime wa committed and from there to the, nearest telephone pole and swung up by one foot.[a]




AT HANDS OF UNKNOWN MOB. 
Thus Did Willis Jackson Meet His Death Says the Coroner's Jury. That Willis Jackson came to his death from gunshot wounds at the hands of an unknown mob was the verdict reached by the coroner's jury at Honea Path today. The horribly mutilated body was viewed by the jury and was eut down from the tel- ephone pole by Coroner Beasly, The mother of the negro refused to take the body. She says she wouldn't have anything to do with a son of hers that would commit such a crime. The negroes refused to allow the body to be interred in their burial grounds, so it was buried at the ex- pense of the county on the home place of Melvin Ashley. Several fing- ers of the negro were severed for souvenirs during the night and the rope, as it fell to the ground, was cut in pieces and distributed among a large crowd that had gathered to see him cut from the pole. Coroner Beasly and Sheriff King arrived on the scene at 9:30 o'clock this morning and, after experiencing a little trouble in getting a jury will- ing to serve, the iзquest was begun. The body was viewed and the jury then repaired to the office of Magis- trate Wilsoh to hear the testimony. Five or six witnessess were examin- ed, but it was impossible to locate any person who admitted seeing the lynching. Everybody in the commu- nity was reticent and the examina- tion of witnesses required only a short time. Sheriff King forwarded a short re- port from Honea Path to Govern r Blease. In the report he referred the Governor to the newspaper ac- counts, which the sheriff stated were correct in every particular as far as he could determine. "Citizen" Josh Ashly was not a witness of the lynching and neither was his son Joe Ashley. These men left the mob with the negro before the crowd reached Honea Path. At Honea Path Mayor Sullivan pleaded that the law be allowed to dispose of the negro. He read a telegram he had received from Govenor Blease, asking that the mob allow the law to take its course and stated that he would obtain a special term of court to try the negro within two weeks. Pleading was of no avail, however, for, afler taking the negro before the little girl for a second identificatior, the crowd proceeded to the scene of attack and there he was s'rung up by his l. f. foot. The negro's body was lit rally riddled with bullets, not a spot as large as a silver dollar remaining where bullets did not pierce.
[a]needs editing
